there, Dean Stangle, and we won that contest in
Fort Worth. So were you also a member of the junior
livestock fishing team? The junior team then,
what, did that stay in Texas? Well, yeah. Well, we
judged at Fort Worth and at Oklahoma City.
Oklahoma City. And the senior livestock? Well,
the senior team judged the International in
Chicago. But did you have to go to Fort Worth and
Oklahoma City? You just went to Chicago, huh?
Yeah. Had to fire for that team, too, you know. So if
you made the junior team, you weren't
automatically on the senior team. That's right.
Were there ever anybody other than the animal
husbandry majors on the team? Not in those days,
because, well, they They didn't take enough
courses in law taught judging to where they made it
anyway. But I think now, I think that's changed
now, I'm not sure. Mostly though, it's having 100
students. Because they take a lot of courses in,
they don't call it judging anymore, I think they
call it evaluation or something like that. This
morning I took a little bit of time and read the
history of your class that's in the 22. Daniel
Longhorn. Longhorn, yes. And there was something
in there that I didn't fully understand. This
would have been during your junior year, and this
mission was made of some kind of an embarrassing
incident that was, you know, possibly would
reflect adversely upon both the school and the
student body. And the Whoever wrote the class
history said something to the effect that the
class of 22 did right and everything went on OK. I
suspect that that might have had something to do
with hazing, but I don't. Well, it might have had
something to do with the junior banquet.
I think they cut out the junior banquet about in
that time. This would have been the 2021 year, I
think. The junior bankers got pretty rough
sometimes. It was the,
they'd always tried to, they didn't know who the
tool smasher was gonna be and they wouldn't
announce it. But the other boys would try to find
out and if they, and they'd get who they thought it
was gonna be and take him way out here in the woods
somewhere and keep him to learn at the bank. Now you
say they, who was they? Well, all the other
students. The other three classes? Yeah. What was
the purpose of the junior banquet? Just a social
function? Yes. But this was something attended
only by members of the junior class or did they
bring guests also? Yeah. We had, we were talking
about entertainment in those days, I guess our
dances was our biggest social entertainment.
We'd have our ROT, the Ross volunteers always had a
dance and The junior class would have dance,
sophomore, freshman. They'd have final ball and
all that kind of stuff. And they were quite popular
because we had to import our girls, you see. Either
from other schools. Where did they stay then?
There were a lot of houses on the campus in the profs
and these profs would keep them. Because at that
point there was no hotel in town, no motel. No, they
stayed with the profs. Earlier, in a sense, before
we turned on the machine, you were telling me
something about an incident involving Senator
Parr and one of his sons. Could you start over?
Well,
Senator Parr's son, George Parr, was going to
school here. And he went over and told me that there
was hazing going on over here. And Senator Parr had
a committee. formed over there, and they come over
here to inspect and look into it. And they told the
commandant to have those boys that George told
them was being hazed to go down to the hospital and
be inspected. So when they come, they could have
them up for the committee. And of course, Dr. Zell,
they told him when it's coming and all. So Dr. Zell
got a student body together and told them about it.
Told them to put on their their good manners and
treat them like gentlemen. And of course the kids
knew what that meant. That meant to really put on
the red carpet. And of course everybody traveled
by train those days when the committee came down to
the depot to get off while they was met there by the
band. And the band played the march while they
marched up to the YMCA where they had this meeting.
And when Archie Parr started acquitting these
boys after he put them on their oath.
He couldn't get much out of them. He asked the boy,
he said, were you hazed? He said, no. He said, now
son, you're on the oath. It'll be hard on you if you
don't tell the truth. He says, I ask you again, were
you hazed? He said, no, sir, I wasn't hazed. Well,
he said, what are those black and blue stripes on
the back of your rump for it if you hadn't been hazed
that you were expected down there at the hospital.
He said my roommate and I were exchanging licks
last night and they never made a thing out of that
but George had to leave school. Do you remember
what year that was? I believe 1920. 1920.
One other student of an earlier had mentioned
something about some hazing in which some
students were dropped from school, and it was
involved the son of a state senator. I was
wondering if it might have been. Well, it could
have been. Well, I don't think it was this one,
because that was Hans Brody, class of 17, who was
involved in that incident, and that was probably
another state senator's son. Well, you know,
there were a lot of boys come here, in those days,
and they didn't stay. They didn't like it. You
know, a school like this at that time, I guess same
way now, but I liked it myself. But a lot of boys
didn't like it, and so they left. You've probably
heard of, out of the class, if 100 boys came here,
freshmen, only about half of them graduated
seniors, or maybe less. And they all, the rest of
them, either changed schools or dropped out of
college, won. I don't know where they went. But,
you know, some boys like some schools, some don't.
I think the way you were raised before you got here
had something to do with it. Yeah, I'm sure it did.
You said you were accustomed to hazing. I was
accustomed. I had three brothers older than I was,
I think. They wasn't too kind to me. And another
thing, I had to milk a cow every night for supper and
every morning for breakfast when I was at home.
Came down here and ate supper without even milking
a cow, ate breakfast without milking a cow. I
thought I was really going to town. You really had
to make that. Yeah. OK. Oh. One or two incidents
that happened while you were here, and I just
wanted to see if you had anything to add to them.
Well, one happened before you came. That was the
famous branding of the University of Texas
mascot. 13 to nothing, yeah. 13 to nothing. I
didn't remember anything about that. Well,
somewhere we had picked up some information.
Matter of fact, we have an invitation. that was
sent out apparently by some people in Austin to a
banquet in Austin and it's January 22nd and the
best we can figure out this was 1920 and that was
inviting people to this banquet in Austin and it
was a barbecue and that's supposed to have been
barbecued Bevo and we had some other indication
that Bevo was slaughtered and the hide was tanned
and and split, and A&M got half, and Austin got, UT
Austin got half. Have you ever had any? No, that's
all news to me. That's all news to you. Well, there
was a newspaper clipping, and maybe the
invitation was a fake. I mean, maybe it was a joke.
Yeah, it could be. But we've been told that the
Beagle never made a public appearance again after
he was branded. Uh-huh. So, uh. Well, I know the
boys, you know, they tried to get the mascot. I know
they went out and got the owl one time. But I think
Dr. Dell didn't take that back.
Yeah, see, we talked a little bit about what you've
done after you graduated, and we want to talk some
more about that. You indicated the first year you
came back and and worked on a master's, and then you
worked for the railroad for a while, and then you
came back to A&M in 25. Stayed until I retired in 65.
But we want to talk a little bit more about what you
did while you were here. We don't want to just skip
over it and say that. Well,
until they combined the Extension Service,
Experimentation, and College in one unit, I was
with Experimentation 100%. And so I was with the
research from 1925 until they combined it about
1946. In 1947 I came over here and I was half
teaching and half research. And when I was doing
research,
we got interested in problems that that our
farmers and ranchers and other citizens were
interested in, like a cottonseed meal for pigs.
Before
I got started in that, we had a
This is a book on pork production. When I studied in
school,
and here's how I'd have to answer that question to
get a hundred on it when I was in school. I'd get zero
on it today. Cutting seed meal is poisonous to
swine. That's the way you learned it in school.
Well, that last sentence there. It is poisonous to
swine if you talk about it. Mm-hmm. Doesn't it say
no way it's been found to feed it to swine? Well,
see, as now prepared cottonseed meal is poisonous
to swine, all the various proposed ways for safely
feeding this meal have failed under careful and
continued tests. Yeah. Pigs thrive at first on the
meal, but usually in from four to six weeks, some
die. Not all is a rule, but so many that all possible
profits from the use of this feed are lost. Yeah.
Now, read this right here, then. cotton seed meal
may be fed safely. As a result of much research and
many practical experiences, it has been shown how
cotton seed meal may be used in swine rations
safely. Hale of the Texas Station, in a
comprehensive series of experiments from 1924 to
1928, demonstrated that it could be fed safely to
all classes of hogs when certain restrictions as
to amount and conditions were observed. Well,
that That did us a lot of good. I was proud of A&M, you
know, to come out of A&M College. I put A&M above me.
It's interesting how
things...
when you're in school, what you, some things
you're told that is true at that time, but may not be
true tomorrow. Now you take this, I don't know
where you've heard of this vitamin A work we did on
pigs or not. Just briefly, that I knew you did some.
But before we did that, the literature, all this
basic science of literature says that a birth
defect is a result of hereditary factor. In other
words, if she was born with some birth defect, it's
due to genetics. Well,
uh, we came, we got to working on the vitamin A and,
uh,
And
our work was reviewed by a lot of people. Here's one
by Dr.
Hogan of Missouri. He tells something about that
there.
What we showed was that
the birth defects may be caused by environmental
factors as well as by hereditary factors. And the
environmental is anything that's not
hereditary. And this thing here is put out by the
University of Copenhagen at Denmark. And they
have verified our work. About 30 years later,
you'll see this published in 1966. And we gave our
first talk.
Our first talk was over here in Atlantic City at the
American meeting of ophthalmology.
And they, when they put out this issue, they put our
talk was the first one in the journal.
Relation
of vitamin A to antifamilies from pigs. That's
small eyes. But what it really showed that it
produced not only blindness, but a lot of other
birth defects. And now that, here's a picture of a
normal pig's eye.
That's a normal pig's eye. And there's a pair of
abnormal pig's eyes. And here's a hair lip, cleft
palate, cyst, And the exterior light grows at the
base of the ear. And we just, that just showed up
everywhere. And then the signs started taking
this up everywhere. And they've been like in
Denmark here, trying to verify that, you know, or
just prove it. And here is the yearbook of
pediatrics, 1934. And they put a picture of our
pigs in there and told about it. And then...
quoted
our work about 10 different years. Here she is,
Paladin. She sent this to me. And there's a
different page that she's got referred to our work
here on this. So I think if we did anything called as
any good, that cut and seam meal work and this work
was not only accepted here in this state, but
nationally, internationally. Like, here's what
she says right here on page 90, and then all these
other pages here. But she came up with the same,
when she gave her studies, started her program,
she got the same thing that we got. Our first letter
was born in 1932. Also,
the Texas Medical Association invited us to give a
talk up there at Fort Worth in 1937.
And they put it on the radio. But there's
a few things we did like that that
I was awfully interested in research. And of
course, I was interested in teaching, too. But I
was in research for over 20 years before we did it.
Let me back up and ask a question about the
cottonseed business.
Why were you trying to figure out how you could feed
cottonseed meal to pigs? Was
it you were trying to find a use for a commodity? Oh
yeah, you see that was a Texas cotton. The cotton
was a big crop for Texas and 1500 pounds of picked
cotton give you a bale of cotton of 500 pounds and
1,000 pounds of seed. And that seed is processed in
the oil and cottonseed meal. And then it's fed to
livestock. And people keep asking me, why can't we
feed cottonseed meal to pigs? And I went through
the literature like that book there. It says you
can't feed it. And that's what I was taught. So I
went to the library and started checking up on
the... data that they used to come to that
conclusion. And I found data where they're
feeding as much as 30% cottonseed meal to pigs, and
then came to that conclusion. Well, so I just asked
myself a question, was I could say that about salt.
If I fed 30% salt in the ration, that salt's
poisonous to pigs and you can't feed it. So I set up
my own project, experiment, and started out with a
lot with no cottonseed meal in it, and then the
other feed that took the place was tankage, a
protein supplement called tankage. And then I
took out a little tankage and put in 3% cotton seed
meal, then another lot, 6% cotton seed meal, 9%
cotton seed meal, 12% cotton seed meal, and 15%
cotton seed meal and no tankage. Well, the reason I
stopped at 15, that balanced the ration as far as
protein is concerned. And so as long as I didn't go
above 9% cotton seed meal, I couldn't tell those
pigs from the growth rate and efficiency of feed
utilization from the ones that didn't have any
cottonseed meal. And that's why we wrote it up that
way. And then people started getting on that
to try to verify that. And they came up with the same
results we did in Nebraska and other places. So
that you had an abundance of cottonseed meal.
Yeah. And you needed to find a use for it. Well,
farmers asked me, I want to feed some cottonseed
me. Why can't I feed cottonseed me to the pigs? And
since we was out here in charge of the swine
laboratory, well, they thought we ought to do some
work on that. And the Texas Cottonseed Products
Association asked us to do a little work on that.
And we came up with that bulletin, and then now
every every bulletin that's published from now on
out when it comes to cottonseed meal, or if you're
near Marsden's Feeding Feeder or anything,
quotes our work on that. Well, I take it that
cottonseed meal itself has a... it's a protein.
Yes. And so, therefore, it should be beneficial,
but what you then have to do is find out what
proportion of it... Well, cottonseed meal is
as... Cotton seed has a toxic substance in it for
pigs called gossypo. And the reason they call it
gossypo, the OL signifies it's a phenol or
carbolic acid compound. And the gossy comes from
gossypium, which is a botanical name for cotton.
So they call it gossypo. And gossypo will kill
pigs, no doubt about that. So we later then set up a
test to find out how much gossypo a pig could
tolerate. And it's .01%, that small amount. And if
you get over that, you're going to kill the pig. But
when you don't go over 9% of your ration as a
cottonseed meal, you'll never have any trouble
with gospel. So the ration then was composed of
like 9 or less percent cottonseed meal, and then
what, grain? Grain and tankage. or anything else
you want to put in there. If you can't have
something, it's a meat scrap or soybean meal or
something to add up the protein to the level it
should be.
So what, the level of the protein should be what,
30%? Well, depending on the age of your pig. Now, a
pig at weaning time needs about 18% crude protein
in the ration. But a 200-pound pig, it needs only
about 12% to 14% protein. Brood sows in a
supplement period need about 15% crude protein.
And we fed this cottonseed meal to brood sows and
all stages of pigs, fed to boars, growing and
fighting pigs, and brood sows in the gestation
period and in the lactation period. So was
cottonseed meal then was a more economical It was
cheaper, yes. It was cheaper than tankage or
something else that would provide protein. When
you added two together, well then you had a better
protein supplement anyway.
Uh-huh. And then you say your other primary
development was the vitamin A studies for pigs.
How did you come to work on that project?
The literature is full of information on the need
of animals for vitamins, even humans and
everybody. And so the direct experiment station
here asked the different divisions to write up a
project for their dairy cattle and beef cattle and
pigs and poultry and all on the vitamin studies.
And we picked vitamin A. for pigs because all of our
farm grains are deficient in vitamin A except
yellow corn and we don't, Texas is not over
abundant in yellow corn, we have grain sorghum and
grain sorghum doesn't have any vitamin A. So we
thought that we should determine the amount of
vitamin A a pig needs and the sources of this
vitamin A and the effect of vitamin A on the
gestation period of the sow and lactation period
all this. And then as we went along, we uh, we wanted
to, we picked gilts, or females, for our study
because we wanted to know what effect it had on the
estrous period, or the heat period of the gilt, and
the number of pigs she had, and how she gave milk for
them, and what the pigs had, the growth effect, the
growth of the pigs, all that. Well, we had one here
to
get out and couldn't get up. We had to give her some
cod liver oil. Of course, we knew enough about the
vitamin A from the literature that one of the
symptoms of vitamin A deficiency in pigs is that
they can't walk straight because the nerve
controls locomotion is degenerated. And they
walked behind legs, they'd cross them this way,
and they'd act like they were almost drunk. And so
when she got that way, well, they gave her some cod
liver oil, and she got all right. And then a
little later when she was down, before she got this
far down, we bred her. And then she got down 30 days
later, couldn't get up, so we gave her cod liver
oil. And then when she had litter of pigs, well,
they were all blind. Well, we knew how we'd been
treating this sow, so we decided then maybe we'd
better set up the test to deplete the sow's vitamin
A storage in her body, which there's a lot of it in
her liver and other organs. And then when she's
depleted of her vitamin A storage breeder and keep
her on this depletion for 30 days longer, that's
when the facial eyes and the other facial cells
develop in the embryo. And so we'd give her a lot of
cow liver oil and it would be too late to repair
this. And we kept producing. Every time we did
that, we'd get blind pigs. So we came to this
conclusion. We had to prove it genetically. We
know that vitamin A is necessary for you to
normalize the function. If you don't take vitamin
A, you're going to have night blindness and things
like that. So the question actually comes to you,
If vitamin A is necessary for the normal eye to
function, is it necessary for the development of
the eye in the embryo? And that was the question.
And then you set up that premise, then you start
your feeding and your experiments to prove
yourself wrong or right. And so...
We published all
this thing in the Journal of Heredity. And
this organization here then got a hold of that and
read that. It was also published in the American
Society of Animal Production. And so they asked us
to prepare a paper for this meeting here. And I sure
did feel humble and not prepared to do this because
I was just 35 years old and I knew I'd be up there with
people from Harvard and Yale and all that place. So
I went over to see my director and talked to him
about it because he was very They were very proud
that we'd get an invitation to a thing like that. He
says, Fred, you just stay with the data you've got.
And if they ask you questions that your data
doesn't cover, just tell them that your data
doesn't cover that question. And say write it in,
what you got on your data, and say they'll never get
you in a hole anywhere. And it worked just exactly
like that.